Python GUI Script to Download NEXRAD Data from Amazon

Script created by Alex Krull, NWS WFO Des Moines, IA
Date Created: 20190424

This script was written for Python 2.7, however, only a few
small syntax changes would likely be needed for Python 3.x
This script is run for Python on a Windows Machine to handle the
syntax of Windows file path structure. 

This will script will need the following Python Packages:
nexradaws
datetime
pytz
Tkinter

nexradaws can easily be installed with pip install, or conda forge
if you run an anaconda python package 

Notes and Instructions: 

In Windows, it is suggested to have a batch file open the
python script. 

It may take as long as 30-45 seconds for the GUI to open. 

Once the GUI opens, fill out all fields.

Note that all times are in UTC. 

Note that in the radar ID, it must be in ALL CAPS, and you 
must also include the K in front of the ID

(For Microsoft Windows) In the Absolute File Path, you will need to even include the letter
drive. You must have the folder/directory created prior to running the Python GUI. This script
does not create a new directory on the fly.  
The easiest way to ensure your absolute file path is correct, is to open a Windows Explorer 
instance to the directory you are loading the files to. In the bar at the top, right click, and
"copy address as text". You can then paste this in the path field of the GUI.  

(For Microsoft Windows) You do not need quotation marks around the absolute path in the GUI.

For folks using this on linux, go ahead and let me know of any correction that may be needed. 
I would maybe expect an issue with the file path syntax. 

Once you have all the information filled out, click download. 

When complete, please use the "Quit" button on the GUI, not the X
in the corner. If the command prompt window does not close, please 
issue the command exit, do not click the X on the corner. 

Any errors that occur should print to the command window. 

If you realize that you are downloading too much data, 
go into the command prompt window and press "CTRL C" to kill it. 
(For example, you start in 2017 and put 2019 in the end date,
you might want to do this. Otherwise, it will load every single
scan over a two year period). 

I have heard that changes coming to the Amazon service may make
nexradaws break, but I believe the developer is prepared for the update.
This script worked in December 2019 still. 

This script is not designed to pull data in "real-time". It has been reported
at times that this script will not pull in radar data if radar scan is less than
60 hours hold. 


